                           Embed RDY2T Firmware
                               7 April 2026

This firmware runs in a Microchip PIC 18F2550 on an Embed ReadyBoard-02.
It is intended as a template for custom firmware for the ReadyBoard.


USB Protocol

  The ENAB_USB switch must be set in the main include file
  (RDY2T.INS.ASPIC) for USB communication to be enabled.  The USB
  command/response protocol is not implemented when ENAB_USB is set to
  FALSE.  When enabled (with ENAB_USB = TRUE), the device enumerates over
  the USB as:

    VID 5824
    PID 1481

  Pipe 0 (endpoints 0 in and out) is reserved exclusively for use by the
  operating system and host device driver.  Both directions use the
  control transfer mode as required by the USB spec.

  Pipe 1 (endpoints 1 in and out) is reserved for application use.  Both
  directions use the bulk transfer mode with a buffer size of 64 bytes.
  The ping-pong buffer mode of the SIE hardware is used.  Since two
  buffers must be considered in use by the SIE at any time, three buffers
  are used per endpoint so that one is always available for the software
  to drain (OUT endpoint) or fill (IN endpoint).

  The application protocol (via pipe 1) wraps data in packets in each
  direction.  Each packet starts with an opcode byte, which may then be
  followed by additional bytes as defined for that opcode.  Packets from
  the host to the device are referred to as "commands", and packets from
  the device to the host are referred to as "responses", although
  responses may not always be sent in direct response to a command.

  In the command and response descriptions below, each data item is an
  unsigned 8 bit byte unless otherwise specified.  Multi-byte values are
  transferred in most to least significant byte order unless otherwise
  specified.

  All command and response opcodes not listed below are reserved, and may
  be implemented in future versions of the firmware.  Unused command
  opcode bytes are ignored, but this should not be relied on since they
  may have meaning in future versions.


Commands

  NOP: 0

    This command is ignored.  This is the only opcode guaranteed to be
    ignored since unused opcodes may be implemented in other versions of
    this firwmware.

  PING: 1

    Causes the PONG response to be sent.

  FWINFO: 2

    Sends a FWINFO response, which identifies the firmware type and
    version.

  NAMESET: 3 n string

    Sets the non-volatile name of the unit.  N is the number of characters
    in the name, and STRING the name characters.  There must be exactly N
    characters in STRING.

  NAMEGET: 4

    Sends the NAME response, which indicates the unit's non-volatile name.

  GETCMDS: 5

    Sends the CMDS response, which indicates the set of implemented
    commands.


Responses

  NOP: 0

    This response must always be ignored by the host.  There is no
    guarantee that a device will ever send this response, but the host
    must tolerate it whenever the start of a new response is expected.

  PONG: 1

    Sent in response to the PING command.

  FWINFO: 2 type version sequence

    Identifies the device firmware.

    TYPE is the type ID of the firmware, which is 76 for the RDY2T
    firmware.

    VERSION is the 1-255 firmware version number.  This number is used to
    identify different versions in the "Firmware Versions" section
    (below).

    SEQUENCE is a sequential number that is unique for every build of the
    firmware with the same TYPE and VERSION.  Only one build of each
    TYPE/VERSION is released.  The sequence number of the released build
    of each version is given in the "Firmware Versions" section of this
    document.  Builds with other than the released sequence number can not
    be relied on to function as specified in this document.

  NAME: 3 n string

    Indicates the non volatile name of the unit.  N is the number of
    characters in the name.  Exactly N character bytes follow N.

  CMDS: 4 dat0 ... dat31

    Indicates the complete set of implemented commands in this particular
    firmware.  Sent in response to GETCMDS command.

    1 bit is sent for each possible 0-255 command opcode.  The commands
    are in least to most significant bit order within each DATn byte.  The
    DAT0 byte is for commands 0-7, DAT1 for commands 8-15, etc.  Exactly
    32 data bytes are always sent.  A 1 bit for a command indicates that
    the command is implemented, and a 0 bit that it is not.  Unimplmented
    command opcodes are ignore by the firmware.


Firmware versions

  RDY2T 1 seq 57, 7 Apr 2026

    USB communication enabled.  Implements commands NOP, PING, FWINFO,
    NAMESET, NAMEGET, GETCMDS.  Implements responses NOP, PING, FWINFO,
    NAME, CMDS.
